this checkpoint in kandia refugee camp
is the only access for most Palestinians
to an AXA mosque on the final Friday in
the holy month of Ramadan this area
would normally be bustling with tens of
thousands of people this year only
dozens are here and some are being
turned
back they want a permit from me I'm 72
years old what do I need a permit for we
are coming to our hly Sight To Worship
they don't respect the
religion Muslims believe leot alada or
the night decree is the holiest night of
Ramadan it's an important time to visit
alaka but an 8 m high wall stands in the
way Palestinians are routinely barred
from traveling from here in the occupied
West Bank to Al axam Mas in occupied
East jerus but this year the Israeli
authorities are imposing much tighter
restrictions the only Palestinians
allowed in are men over the age of 55
and women over the age of 50 they're
tightly packed behind the checkpoint
here in kandia and they're overlooked by
Israeli soldiers and you can see many of
them standing up on the hill above
us on top of age restrictions
Palestinians must apply for a permit and
electronic tag via a phone app but many
are
struggling I've tried to come here and
apply for the permit with my mobile from
the application but it seems faulty so
I've come to ask people to help me since
the war on Gaza started in October
there's been an increase in checkpoints
and attacks by the Israeli military and
settlers making travel more difficult
and dangerous one legal advisor tells us
that Israel considers occupied East
Jerusalem its Sovereign territory that
isn't recognized by the United Nations
since 1967 Israel is violating
International and humanitarian law by
annexing Jerusalem and preventing
palestin vence from reaching it
especially during the holy month of
Ramadan and especially young people so
the Israeli checkpoint is just over here
but behind me there are many women who
are above the age of 50 who haven't been
able to enter through there to reach
alexas so I'm going to speak to one of
them I asked her why she wasn't able to
enter they told me I don't have a permit
and I told them I applied but was
refused they checked again and I asked
for one on the spot they told me to go
home Palestinians here say the
atmosphere is the most subdued they've
seen in 20 years they blame increasingly
aggressive Israeli policies that are
entrenching the occupation and
separating them from their sacred sites
Laura Khan Al jazer kandia in the
occupied West
Bank make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer